hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
and I am back with yet another notebook
review today we're doing the Alienware
15 so I did the Alienware 13 a few weeks
ago I didn't love that notebook at the
time just because it was priced a little
bit high
they have since dropped the price on
that one but this is the notebook that I
originally wanted to do the review on I
feel that 15-inch notebooks are kind of
where mobile gaming should be I've had
this one for a little bit over two weeks
here's my review all right so a quick
unboxing here black yellow and wear box
you pop the lid and the entire inside of
the box is covered in foam which is cool
the compartment at the bottom that has
the AC adapter and underneath the
notebook are some Alienware pamphlets
nothing special just standard QuickStart
stuff the top of the notebook is plastic
it's a fiber reinforced plastic so it's
like plastic material with some
carbon-based fibers in there but it's
not a traditional carbon fiber it's
supposedly very durable but it looks and
feels like regular plastic and like all
of their notebooks it has that classic
Alienware logo here the bottom of the
notebook is also plastic and there are
four rubber feet here these are actually
pretty tall the intake vents are also
located back here the panel in the
middle does come off and inside you have
two rows of RAM over here a regular
mechanical Drive and an m2 SATA Drive
there's actually room for a second empty
SATA drive right beside that first one
so you can actually have three physical
drives in here and all of these things
can be upgraded or replaced if you ever
need to in terms of ports on the back in
between the two exhaust vents we have a
connector for the external graphics and
fat alien work cells a mini DisplayPort
and HDMI ports so both of these outputs
work fine on my 4k monitor
on the right side we have an SD card
slot that holds lead card pretty much
flush to USB 3 ports and a built-in
Gigabit Ethernet port which is pretty
rare these days even on gamer notebooks
on the left side we have separate
headphone and microphone jacks 2 more
USB 3 ports a lock slot and the AC
adapter connection so the adapter is a
180 watt Beast so it's pretty big
there's a really dim light up front that
shows when it's powered but there's no
indicator on the adapter itself to show
when it's charging you kind of have to
open up the notebook and look at the
notebooks power button for charging
status all right in terms of its
dimensions it's longer and wider than a
15-inch MacBook and it seems quite a bit
thicker and to answer a question that
keeps popping up this is a D brand scan
that's on the MacBook and white carbon
fiber now the difference in thickness is
actually a little deceptive so remember
those tall rubber feet on the bottom if
you've seen my review of the HP omen
there was a bit of an issue on that
notebook where the temperatures got kind
of high because there wasn't enough cool
air going into the air intake but the
Alienware 15 has these rubber feet to
kind of prop it up for a better airflow
but it makes the notebook seem quite a
bit thicker I'm also pretty sure I could
have slid a third penny underneath but
Canada got rid of pennies a while ago so
I could only find two pennies in the
office but even when you take those
rubber feet into account it's still a
pretty thick notebook and weighing in at
7 pounds it's not exactly light either
so what do you get inside this beefy 7
pounder it has a Haswell core i7 running
at 2.5 gigahertz a 15 inch 4k
touchscreen 16 gigs of ram 2 drives a
256 solid state and a one terabyte
mechanical gtx 970 all for 1700 canadian
which should be like 13 $1400 us right
but we'll get into that later on the 4k
screen has great color it's very vibrant
not oversaturated and it's quite bright
the viewing angles seem okay it's an IPS
panel but the viewing angles aren't as
good as some other IPS panels I've used
but it's decent and a spider pegs this
thing at 100% srgb and 99% adobe RGB so
this is actually one of the most color
accurate notebook screens I've ever used
calibration out of the box is pretty
good as well I'd say it's as
good if not better than the color
accuracy of a 15-inch MacBook Pro it is
a glossy finish and it doesn't have the
anti glare tint like the MacBook does
but because the screen is bright it's
not a problem
it's a 1080p webcam it seems pretty good
and I film some pretty important stuff
while using it now might just have been
really good sunlight or something but
the color seemed pretty good off of this
webcam I don't know I'll let you decided
the inside has a soft touch material
kind of like the 13 inch version it's
nice to touch but I think the jury's
still out on long-term durability but I
do like the idea of it the keyboard
feels good keys have a lot of travel
typing is comfortable and I like the
placement of the directional keys there
are some macro keys that you can set up
on the left side but they've done a
really good job to keep the keyboard
centered even with these macro keys it's
a really good keyboard for general use
and gaming the trackpad has two physical
buttons and I like them there's a
surprising amount of travel on these
buttons but they're still responsive and
they're not spongy the trackpad itself
is okay it has that classic Windows
trackpad leg and it skips around a
little it's better than the Alienware 13
trackpad but it's not amazing you know
what is amazing though things that light
up this is the first track pad I've use
that lights up like this it sounds
really gimmicky and ok no it is gimmicky
because this thing has no practical
purpose but they did a really good job
on this and like the twelve-year-old kid
in me loves it you can change it to a
bunch of different colors and if you
want to go insane you could make it
flash all the time so you can control
the trackpad and lighting on a keyboard
through software it's really intuitive
you just kind of click around on
different zones on the notebook and then
you click on the corresponding color
wheel and ban your colors changed I
haven't done the math but there's
probably like hundreds of thousands of
color combinations you can also change
the color of the top surface the
notebook you can't make it cycle through
the colors like this I'm just showing
you the different color options alright
enough about rainbow stuff so the SSD
speeds are about 450 right and 500 read
and the mechanical drive has just really
bad numbers it's like a hundred or 150
for read and write video editing
performance is really good on this thing
it's probably one of the best mobile
video editing rings I've ever used for
starters if you remember it comes with
two drives which is great for video
editing and you can always add a third
Drive to make it your scratch disk or
something which is even better it has a
color accurate 4k screen a fast
processor and a fast GPU so this thing
really feels like it was built for video
editing it crushes 1080p edits and 4k
edits are still really good it's not as
snappy as my 2015 MacBook Pro but in
terms of render times the Alienware 15
is about 10-15 percent faster I played a
little minecraft and got a lot of frames
per second so this is a good gaming
computer that's the end of the review
hope you guys liked watching ok I'm
kidding so just for fun I cranked Street
Fighter 4 to full 4k res and I still got
like 70 frames per second but seriously
on a 15-inch screen there's no visible
difference between 4k and 1080p in
Street Fighter 4 or for most games for
that matter I mean if you stick your eye
right up to the screen you can kind of
see the difference but when you're
playing you really can't tell GTA v had
problems running at 4k but at 1080p it
runs pretty well but when you play it on
high settings you get around 40 frames
per second a little bit less sometimes
on medium you get around mid to high 50s
so it's very respectable here's the
storm I also tried at 4k just to see
frame rates you get around 25 to 30
frames per second so it's not worth your
time but playing at 1080p on Ultra
settings you get over 60 frames per
second when you're laning and around 40
to 50 frames in teamfights in general
though gaming performance is really good
and I'll be able to comfortably run any
kind of modern game you throw at it just
a quick blurb on battery life here it's
a 92 watt hour battery that gets kind of
disappointing battery life considering
how thick it is I got around 5 and 1/2
hours of regular use 6 hours watching
movies from the Drive both of these had
screen around 80% of brightness I've got
a little bit less than 2 hours playing
games on battery with screen at max
brightness keep in mind though that the
performance drops a lot on this machine
when you're playing on battery that's
just how the 970 works fan noise it
idles around mid 20 decibel
mechanical drives have a bit of noise to
them so that's why it's not completely
silent but it's still very quiet now
when things get going a bit like on some
low-end games fans kick in gently it's
around 30 decibels but it's not
bothersome but sometimes when hardcore
3d games are really taxing this thing
the fans hit mid 40s and Holy Mother of
God
it is loud it's actually straight up
unpleasant to play games without
headphones when the fans are going on
like this it doesn't happen often but
yeah when it does it's annoying the good
thing is that when you look at the
thermals the system seems well cooled I
mean a 15-inch MacBook hits 40 to 43
degrees Celsius but the Alienware 15
hits 38:39 at its warmest points it has
to get loud as if to cool like this but
at least it's not loud and hot right the
speakers are front-facing and that's
probably the only real advantage of that
super thick case you can fit speakers
that kind of point right at you they
sound good for notebook speakers and
because they're directed at you they
seem to get pretty loud here's what they
sound like
so there's a lot of really good stuff
going on inside the Alienware 15 it's
got a really great screen possibly one
of the best screens two hard drives lots
of RAM really fast video card like
everything about it is just designed for
just a really great gaming experience
aside from that thickness I mean no one
has a thick notebook but the one reason
why I can't just openly recommend this
notebook is because of its pricing so
right now in the Canadian Microsoft
Store this thing is priced at $1700
Canadian and that's I mean that's on
sale now normally that price would
translates like fourteen or fifteen
hundred dollars u.s. or maybe even
thirteen hundred dollars u.s. but it's
actually going for eighteen hundred in
the American Microsoft store so that's a
little bit weird to me I think there
will be an upcoming price drop I think
with the four core Broadwell chips
coming out this will drop in price now
if you can get it for fourteen or
fifteen hundred dollars u.s. I think
this is one of the best valued hardcore
gaming notebooks out there I mean
everything about it just screams gamer
but if you can't and you have to pay
seventeen or eighteen hundred dollars
for this thing then it kind of becomes a
okay buy in terms of its overall usage
though this is a great device for
hardcore mobile gamer or a mobile video
or photo editor and just a great
notebook all around that's the end of
the review hope you guys liked it if you
have any questions comments type below
thumbs have you liked it
subs have you loved it it's been nice
and I'll see you guys next time